README.md, before:

# Myriad 🌈

*One repository to rule them all, one repository to find them...*

Welcome to my delightfully chaotic software development playground where I've collected everything from DNS analysis tools to network traffic monitors, because apparently I have commitment issues with single-purpose repositories.

This monorepo is like that drawer in your kitchen where you keep "useful stuff" – except this one actually **is** useful, and I can find things in it.

## What's All This Then? 🤔

Myriad is my personal software laboratory where I experiment with, develop, and unleash various tools upon an unsuspecting world. It's a polyglot paradise featuring everything from Next.js web applications to Go system utilities, Ruby gems, Python scripts, and the occasional RouterOS configuration that definitely won't brick your network equipment. Warranty void if it does.

Think of it as a Swiss Army knife, if Swiss Army knives came with TypeScript, had dependency graphs that resembled modern art, and occasionally made you question your life choices.

```mermaid
graph TB
    A[🌈 Myriad Monorepo] --> B[🚀 Active Projects]
    A --> C[📐 Development Templates]
    A --> D[🛠️ Utility Scripts]
    A --> E[📚 Research & Documentation]
    A --> F[🗃️ The Boneyard]

    B --> B1[🌐 Web Applications]
    B --> B2[🔧 System Tools]
    B --> B3[⚡ CLI Utilities]
    B --> B4[🐳 Infrastructure]

    C --> C1[🎯 Project Templates]
    C --> C2[📋 Cursor Rules]
    C --> C3[⚙️ GitHub Actions]
    C --> C4[🔍 Quality Configs]

    D --> D1[🔄 Automation Scripts]
    D --> D2[📦 Docker Tools]
    D --> D3[🔐 Security Utilities]

    E --> E1[📖 Technical Guides]
    E --> E2[🧪 Experiments]

    F --> F1[💀 Archived Projects]
    F --> F2[🔄 Restoration Service]
```

## The Greatest Hits 🎵

### Web Applications That Actually Work
- **[dnstool](projects/dnstool/)** - DNS analysis that won't make you cry (unlike bind9 config files)
- **[keycheck](projects/keycheck/)** - Check if your credentials have been compromised (spoiler: they probably have)
- **[ticket-explorer](projects/ticket-explorer/)** - Ticket management with a synthwave aesthetic because the 80s never died
- **[movietool](projects/movietool/)** - Find duplicate movies before your storage costs spiral into existential dread

### System Tools for the Masochistic
- **[aaisp-exporter](projects/aaisp-exporter/)** - Prometheus exporter for AAISP metrics (because someone has to monitor the monitors)
- **[netflow](projects/netflow/)** - Network traffic analysis that's somehow more entertaining than watching paint dry
- **[envhunter](projects/envhunter/)** - Ruby gem that finds `.env` files with secrets in the wild (terrifyingly effective)
- **[lsr](projects/lsr/)** - Python reconnaissance tool for when you need to know **everything**

### Development Tools for the Perpetually Unsatisfied
- **[alt](projects/alt/)** - Raycast extension for AI-powered alt text (accessibility with a side of automation)
- **[bump](projects/bump/)** - Version bumping that doesn't require a PhD in semantic versioning
- **[mcp](projects/mcp/)** - Model Context Protocol processor because AI needs more context, apparently
- **[rails-template](projects/rails-template/)** - Rails 8 template with more opinions than a Twitter thread

### Infrastructure & Configs
- **[mikrotik](projects/mikrotik/)** - RouterOS configurations that might not destroy your network
- **[webdummy](projects/webdummy/)** - HTTP test server for when nginx is being dramatic

## The Technology Buffet 🍽️

Because I believe in using the right tool for the job (and sometimes the wrong tool for the entertainment value):

**Primary Arsenal:**
- **Bun** (1.2.15) - JavaScript runtime that's actually fast
- **TypeScript** (5.8.3) - JavaScript with types and feelings
- **Python** (3.13.4) - For when you need something that just works
- **Go** (1.24.3) - When performance matters more than your sanity
- **Ruby** (3.4.3) - Because elegance never goes out of style

**Quality Assurance Theatre:**
- **mise** - Tool version management that doesn't hate you
- **Trunk** - Code quality platform (the bouncer of the software world)
- **Biome** - Formatting and linting at the speed of light
- **Claude Code** - AI pair programming (my rubber duck got an upgrade)

**Deployment Destinations:**
- **Cloudflare Workers** - Serverless that actually scales
- **Vercel** - For when you want deployment to be suspiciously easy
- **Docker** - Containerization for the commitment-phobic

## Getting Started (AKA "What Have I Gotten Myself Into?") 🚀

### Prerequisites
You'll need to be comfortable with:
- Multiple programming languages (polyglot or bust)
- The existential dread of dependency management
- TypeScript's passive-aggressive error messages
- The fact that "it works on my machine" is not a deployment strategy

### Installation
```bash
# Clone the chaos
git clone https://github.com/daveio/myriad.git
cd myriad

# Install the JavaScript bits
bun install

# Set up mise for tool management (trust me on this)
mise install

# Choose your own adventure
cd projects/[pick-something-interesting]
```

### Development Workflow

Each project is lovingly self-contained with its own dependencies and build system, because I believe in independence (and avoiding dependency hell).

```bash
# Individual project development
cd projects/dnstool
bun run dev          # Start development server
bun run build        # Build for production
bun run test         # Run tests (yes, they exist)
bun run lint         # Make the code prettier
bun run typecheck    # Appease the TypeScript gods
```

**Quality Verification Ritual:**
```bash
# The holy trinity of "does it work?"
bun run lint && bun run typecheck && bun run test

# The nuclear option (full build + checks)
bun run check
```

## The Baseline 📐

The `baseline/` directory contains my opinionated collection of development templates, configurations, and automation scripts. It's like a starter pack for new projects, if starter packs came with:

- **100+ Cursor rules** for every framework known to humanity
- **GitHub Actions workflows** that actually work
- **Dependabot configurations** that won't spam you into oblivion
- **Security setups** that assume everyone is trying to hack you (because they are)

**Common Baseline Operations:**
```bash
# Pin GitHub Actions to SHAs across all repos (security theater at its finest)
bun run baseline/scripts/pin.ts

# Configure Dependabot grouping (because PR spam is real)
bun run baseline/scripts/dependagroup.ts

# Run the full maintenance circus
bun run baseline/scripts/maint
```

## The Boneyard 💀

Sometimes projects die. It's sad, but it's life. The `boneyard/` contains the remains of projects that have shuffled off this mortal coil. But here's the twist – they can be **resurrected**!

Need something from the boneyard? [Open an issue](https://github.com/daveio/myriad/issues/new?template=content-request.md) and I'll restore it from backup like some sort of digital necromancer.

## Research & Documentation 📚

The `research/` directory is where I document my journey through the seven circles of software development hell:

- **Cloudflare platform guides** - Because edge computing is the future (allegedly)
- **JavaScript ecosystem research** - React 19, Rails 8, and other bleeding-edge adventures
- **Network analysis documentation** - For when you need to know why the internet is slow
- **Security research** - Paranoia as a service

## Asset Management 🎨

The `images/` directory contains logos, icons, and other visual assets organized with the obsessive-compulsive precision of someone who's tired of hunting for that one PNG file.

**Structure:**
```plaintext
images/
├── projects/        # Project-specific branding
│   ├── social/      # Social media formats
│   └── square/      # Square formats for everything else
├── multipurpose/    # Generic icons for documentation
└── myriad/         # Myriad-specific branding
```

## Automation & Scripts 🤖

Because manual work is for people who have given up on life:

### GitHub Actions Security Theater
- **Automatic SHA pinning** - Because version tags are for optimists
- **Dependabot grouping** - Turning dependency update chaos into manageable inconvenience
- **Security scanning** - Assuming the worst about everyone and everything

### Development Environment Automation
- **Docker Compose generation** - Templates with environment substitution
- **Tool version management** - mise keeps everything in line
- **Quality verification** - Automated checks because humans are fallible

## Contributing 🤝

Want to contribute? That's... unexpected but welcome! Here's how to avoid making me question your life choices:

1. **Follow the rules** - Check `CLAUDE.md` for the technical requirements (it's comprehensive)
2. **Write tests** - Untested code is like a time bomb with a sense of humor
3. **Update documentation** - Both the technical bits and the human-readable parts
4. **Be consistent** - Each project has its own conventions (when in Rome...)
5. **Security first** - Assume everyone is trying to hack everything

### Development Philosophy

This repository follows these principles:
- **Quality over speed** - We're building for the long haul, not the next sprint
- **Real data only** - Mock data is the enemy of debugging
- **Test everything** - If it has logic, it has tests
- **Document changes** - Future you will thank present you
- **Security by default** - Paranoia is a feature, not a bug

## License & Legal Nonsense 📜

See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for the legal bits. TL;DR: Don't be evil, give credit where it's due, and if you break something it's probably your fault.

## Support & Feedback 🆘

- **Issues**: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/daveio/myriad/issues) - For when things break (they will)
- **Discussions**: [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/daveio/myriad/discussions) - For philosophical debates about semicolons
- **Email**: <dave@dave.io> - For when GitHub is down (which happens more than we'd like)

## Final Thoughts 💭

This monorepo represents years of accumulated digital detritus, polished into something resembling usefulness. It's a testament to the fact that sometimes the best way to organize chaos is to embrace it and add really good documentation.

Whether you're here to use a tool, steal some code, or just marvel at the audacity of putting this many different technologies in one repository, welcome to the madness. Try not to break anything too important.

*"The best code is code that works, the second best code is code that fails fast and loudly."* - Some developer, probably after debugging mock data for 6 hours

---

Built with ❤️, ☕, and a healthy amount of 😤 in the pursuit of developer productivity and the perfect commit message.

Commit message:

📝 Add section for pending documentation in README
Added a "Pending Additions" section to the README to track documentation needs, specifically noting that GitHub Actions builds documentation is missing. This helps maintain awareness of documentation gaps and serves as a reminder for future contributors.

README.md, after:

# Myriad 🌈

*One repository to rule them all, one repository to find them...*

Welcome to my delightfully chaotic software development playground where I've collected everything from DNS analysis tools to network traffic monitors, because apparently I have commitment issues with single-purpose repositories.

This monorepo is like that drawer in your kitchen where you keep "useful stuff" – except this one actually **is** useful, and I can find things in it.

## What's All This Then? 🤔

Myriad is my personal software laboratory where I experiment with, develop, and unleash various tools upon an unsuspecting world. It's a polyglot paradise featuring everything from Next.js web applications to Go system utilities, Ruby gems, Python scripts, and the occasional RouterOS configuration that definitely won't brick your network equipment. Warranty void if it does.

Think of it as a Swiss Army knife, if Swiss Army knives came with TypeScript, had dependency graphs that resembled modern art, and occasionally made you question your life choices.

```mermaid
graph TB
    A[🌈 Myriad Monorepo] --> B[🚀 Active Projects]
    A --> C[📐 Development Templates]
    A --> D[🛠️ Utility Scripts]
    A --> E[📚 Research & Documentation]
    A --> F[🗃️ The Boneyard]

    B --> B1[🌐 Web Applications]
    B --> B2[🔧 System Tools]
    B --> B3[⚡ CLI Utilities]
    B --> B4[🐳 Infrastructure]

    C --> C1[🎯 Project Templates]
    C --> C2[📋 Cursor Rules]
    C --> C3[⚙️ GitHub Actions]
    C --> C4[🔍 Quality Configs]

    D --> D1[🔄 Automation Scripts]
    D --> D2[📦 Docker Tools]
    D --> D3[🔐 Security Utilities]

    E --> E1[📖 Technical Guides]
    E --> E2[🧪 Experiments]

    F --> F1[💀 Archived Projects]
    F --> F2[🔄 Restoration Service]
```

## The Greatest Hits 🎵

### Web Applications That Actually Work
- **[dnstool](projects/dnstool/)** - DNS analysis that won't make you cry (unlike bind9 config files)
- **[keycheck](projects/keycheck/)** - Check if your credentials have been compromised (spoiler: they probably have)
- **[ticket-explorer](projects/ticket-explorer/)** - Ticket management with a synthwave aesthetic because the 80s never died
- **[movietool](projects/movietool/)** - Find duplicate movies before your storage costs spiral into existential dread

### System Tools for the Masochistic
- **[aaisp-exporter](projects/aaisp-exporter/)** - Prometheus exporter for AAISP metrics (because someone has to monitor the monitors)
- **[netflow](projects/netflow/)** - Network traffic analysis that's somehow more entertaining than watching paint dry
- **[envhunter](projects/envhunter/)** - Ruby gem that finds `.env` files with secrets in the wild (terrifyingly effective)
- **[lsr](projects/lsr/)** - Python reconnaissance tool for when you need to know **everything**

### Development Tools for the Perpetually Unsatisfied
- **[alt](projects/alt/)** - Raycast extension for AI-powered alt text (accessibility with a side of automation)
- **[bump](projects/bump/)** - Version bumping that doesn't require a PhD in semantic versioning
- **[mcp](projects/mcp/)** - Model Context Protocol processor because AI needs more context, apparently
- **[rails-template](projects/rails-template/)** - Rails 8 template with more opinions than a Twitter thread

### Infrastructure & Configs
- **[mikrotik](projects/mikrotik/)** - RouterOS configurations that might not destroy your network
- **[webdummy](projects/webdummy/)** - HTTP test server for when nginx is being dramatic

## The Technology Buffet 🍽️

Because I believe in using the right tool for the job (and sometimes the wrong tool for the entertainment value):

**Primary Arsenal:**
- **Bun** (1.2.15) - JavaScript runtime that's actually fast
- **TypeScript** (5.8.3) - JavaScript with types and feelings
- **Python** (3.13.4) - For when you need something that just works
- **Go** (1.24.3) - When performance matters more than your sanity
- **Ruby** (3.4.3) - Because elegance never goes out of style

**Quality Assurance Theatre:**
- **mise** - Tool version management that doesn't hate you
- **Trunk** - Code quality platform (the bouncer of the software world)
- **Biome** - Formatting and linting at the speed of light
- **Claude Code** - AI pair programming (my rubber duck got an upgrade)

**Deployment Destinations:**
- **Cloudflare Workers** - Serverless that actually scales
- **Vercel** - For when you want deployment to be suspiciously easy
- **Docker** - Containerization for the commitment-phobic

## Getting Started (AKA "What Have I Gotten Myself Into?") 🚀

### Prerequisites
You'll need to be comfortable with:
- Multiple programming languages (polyglot or bust)
- The existential dread of dependency management
- TypeScript's passive-aggressive error messages
- The fact that "it works on my machine" is not a deployment strategy

### Installation
```bash
# Clone the chaos
git clone https://github.com/daveio/myriad.git
cd myriad

# Install the JavaScript bits
bun install

# Set up mise for tool management (trust me on this)
mise install

# Choose your own adventure
cd projects/[pick-something-interesting]
```

### Development Workflow

Each project is lovingly self-contained with its own dependencies and build system, because I believe in independence (and avoiding dependency hell).

```bash
# Individual project development
cd projects/dnstool
bun run dev          # Start development server
bun run build        # Build for production
bun run test         # Run tests (yes, they exist)
bun run lint         # Make the code prettier
bun run typecheck    # Appease the TypeScript gods
```

**Quality Verification Ritual:**
```bash
# The holy trinity of "does it work?"
bun run lint && bun run typecheck && bun run test

# The nuclear option (full build + checks)
bun run check
```

## The Baseline 📐

The `baseline/` directory contains my opinionated collection of development templates, configurations, and automation scripts. It's like a starter pack for new projects, if starter packs came with:

- **100+ Cursor rules** for every framework known to humanity
- **GitHub Actions workflows** that actually work
- **Dependabot configurations** that won't spam you into oblivion
- **Security setups** that assume everyone is trying to hack you (because they are)

**Common Baseline Operations:**
```bash
# Pin GitHub Actions to SHAs across all repos (security theater at its finest)
bun run baseline/scripts/pin.ts

# Configure Dependabot grouping (because PR spam is real)
bun run baseline/scripts/dependagroup.ts

# Run the full maintenance circus
bun run baseline/scripts/maint
```

## The Boneyard 💀

Sometimes projects die. It's sad, but it's life. The `boneyard/` contains the remains of projects that have shuffled off this mortal coil. But here's the twist – they can be **resurrected**!

Need something from the boneyard? [Open an issue](https://github.com/daveio/myriad/issues/new?template=content-request.md) and I'll restore it from backup like some sort of digital necromancer.

## Research & Documentation 📚

The `research/` directory is where I document my journey through the seven circles of software development hell:

- **Cloudflare platform guides** - Because edge computing is the future (allegedly)
- **JavaScript ecosystem research** - React 19, Rails 8, and other bleeding-edge adventures
- **Network analysis documentation** - For when you need to know why the internet is slow
- **Security research** - Paranoia as a service

## Asset Management 🎨

The `images/` directory contains logos, icons, and other visual assets organized with the obsessive-compulsive precision of someone who's tired of hunting for that one PNG file.

**Structure:**
```plaintext
images/
├── projects/        # Project-specific branding
│   ├── social/      # Social media formats
│   └── square/      # Square formats for everything else
├── multipurpose/    # Generic icons for documentation
└── myriad/         # Myriad-specific branding
```

## Automation & Scripts 🤖

Because manual work is for people who have given up on life:

### GitHub Actions Security Theater
- **Automatic SHA pinning** - Because version tags are for optimists
- **Dependabot grouping** - Turning dependency update chaos into manageable inconvenience
- **Security scanning** - Assuming the worst about everyone and everything

### Development Environment Automation
- **Docker Compose generation** - Templates with environment substitution
- **Tool version management** - mise keeps everything in line
- **Quality verification** - Automated checks because humans are fallible

## Contributing 🤝

Want to contribute? That's... unexpected but welcome! Here's how to avoid making me question your life choices:

1. **Follow the rules** - Check `CLAUDE.md` for the technical requirements (it's comprehensive)
2. **Write tests** - Untested code is like a time bomb with a sense of humor
3. **Update documentation** - Both the technical bits and the human-readable parts
4. **Be consistent** - Each project has its own conventions (when in Rome...)
5. **Security first** - Assume everyone is trying to hack everything

### Development Philosophy

This repository follows these principles:
- **Quality over speed** - We're building for the long haul, not the next sprint
- **Real data only** - Mock data is the enemy of debugging
- **Test everything** - If it has logic, it has tests
- **Document changes** - Future you will thank present you
- **Security by default** - Paranoia is a feature, not a bug

## License & Legal Nonsense 📜

See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for the legal bits. TL;DR: Don't be evil, give credit where it's due, and if you break something it's probably your fault.

## Support & Feedback 🆘

- **Issues**: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/daveio/myriad/issues) - For when things break (they will)
- **Discussions**: [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/daveio/myriad/discussions) - For philosophical debates about semicolons
- **Email**: <dave@dave.io> - For when GitHub is down (which happens more than we'd like)

## Pending Additions 📝

This README needs documentation of the GitHub Actions builds.

## Final Thoughts 💭

This monorepo represents years of accumulated digital detritus, polished into something resembling usefulness. It's a testament to the fact that sometimes the best way to organize chaos is to embrace it and add really good documentation.

Whether you're here to use a tool, steal some code, or just marvel at the audacity of putting this many different technologies in one repository, welcome to the madness. Try not to break anything too important.

*"The best code is code that works, the second best code is code that fails fast and loudly."* - Some developer, probably after debugging mock data for 6 hours

---

Built with ❤️, ☕, and a healthy amount of 😤 in the pursuit of developer productivity and the perfect commit message.
