research/dependabot/dependabot-grouping.md, before:

Ah, the eternal struggle of the modern developer: death by a thousand Dependabot PRs. Nothing quite says "productive morning" like waking up to 47 separate pull requests, each updating a single npm package by 0.0.1. Let me help you escape this particular circle of dependency hell.Ah, the Dependabot PR avalanche – where every morning feels like Christmas, except Santa is a bot who brings you 47 tiny boxes, each containing a single dependency update that bumps a patch version you didn't even know existed. Let me guide you through the escape routes from this particular circle of dependency hell.

## The Native Solution: GitHub's Grouped Updates

GitHub finally heard the collective groans of developers worldwide and released grouped version updates for Dependabot. This is probably your best bet if you want to stay within the GitHub ecosystem and avoid third-party tools.

You can configure groups in your `dependabot.yml` file to combine updates however you like:

```yaml
version: 2
updates:
  - package-ecosystem: "npm"
    directory: "/"
    schedule:
      interval: "weekly"
    groups:
      # The nuclear option: combine ALL THE THINGS
      all-the-deps:
        patterns:
          - "*"  # Warning: This might create a PR so large it achieves sentience

      # Or be more sensible and group by type
      dev-dependencies:
        dependency-type: "development"

      # Or by package patterns
      aws-stuff:
        patterns:
          - "aws*"
          - "@aws-sdk/*"
```

The beauty of this approach is that Dependabot is smart enough to close all the redundant individual PRs once you merge the combined one. No more playing whack-a-mole with dozens of PRs.

## The CLI Extension Route: gh-combine-prs

If you prefer command-line solutions (or GitHub's grouping doesn't quite scratch your itch), there's a GitHub CLI extension called `gh-combine-prs` that combines multiple PRs into one.

Installation is straightforward:
```fish
gh extension install rnorth/gh-combine-prs
```

Then you can run:
```fish
gh combine-prs --query "author:app/dependabot"
```

One developer even created an alias to make their life easier: `alias ghcombine="gh combine-prs --query \"author:app/dependabot\""`. Because if you're going to repeatedly merge dependency updates, you might as well save yourself some keystrokes.

## The GitHub Action Approach

For those who believe in automation all the way down, there are several GitHub Actions available:

1. **github/combine-prs**: GitHub themselves use this Action to combine multiple dependabot PRs. It's customizable and doesn't have to be Dependabot-specific.

2. **mAAdhaTTah/combine-dependabot-prs**: A more specialized action that includes nice features like checking if PRs are green before combining and respecting ignore labels.

3. **The Hrvey Workflow**: Creates a new PR with a branch that has merged all Dependabot PR branches together, which is particularly elegant because it lets you test all updates together before merging.

## The Auto-Merge Danger Zone

Some brave souls have set up workflows to automatically merge Dependabot PRs that pass CI. While this sounds like the ultimate automation dream, it's a security risk, especially if you have continuous deployment set up, as a malicious package could be published and automatically deployed.

If you insist on living dangerously, at least ensure there's a manual QA step somewhere between the updates and production deployment. Your future self will thank you when the next Log4j vulnerability doesn't automatically propagate through your entire infrastructure.

## The Reality Check

Here's the thing: even with grouped updates, you're still dealing with the fundamental issue that some packages simply have to be updated together. Angular packages, React and React-DOM, AWS SDK components – they're all joined at the hip and updating one without the others is a recipe for a failed build.

The good news is that GitHub's grouped updates can handle this with pattern matching. The bad news is that you still need to know which packages are co-dependent, which is its own special kind of knowledge that you accumulate through painful experience.

## My Recommendation

Start with GitHub's native grouped updates – it's built-in, well-supported, and requires minimal setup. If you need more control or find yourself in edge cases, graduate to the CLI extension or GitHub Actions.

And whatever you do, resist the siren call of full automation. Those 47 PRs might be annoying, but they're less annoying than explaining to your boss why a compromised NPM package just took down production because your bot was feeling particularly helpful that morning.

Happy merging, and may your dependency graph be ever in your favor! 🎲

Commit message:

🎨 Improve formatting and accessibility across documentation files
Standardized markdown headings, fixed code blocks, added proper HTML attributes,
and improved document structure across multiple files. Added integrity
attributes to external scripts for better security. Fixed inconsistent
formatting in React code examples by properly escaping JSX syntax in markdown.
These changes make the documentation more accessible, consistent, and secure.

🎨 Improve code formatting and structure in documentation and source files

The commit improves code formatting across multiple files by standardizing
code blocks in documentation with proper language tags, removing trailing
whitespace in the Mikrotik guide, and modernizing imports in the bump.ts
file by using node: prefixes. Also adds path sanitization to prevent
traversal attacks and improves null checking with optional chaining.

research/dependabot/dependabot-grouping.md, after:

# Grouping Dependabot PRs: The Art of Not Losing Your Mind

## The Native Solution: GitHub's Grouped Updates

GitHub finally heard the collective groans of developers worldwide and released grouped version updates for Dependabot. This is probably your best bet if you want to stay within the GitHub ecosystem and avoid third-party tools.

You can configure groups in your `dependabot.yml` file to combine updates however you like:

```yaml
version: 2
updates:
  - package-ecosystem: "npm"
    directory: "/"
    schedule:
      interval: "weekly"
    groups:
      # The nuclear option: combine ALL THE THINGS
      all-the-deps:
        patterns:
          - "*"  # Warning: This might create a PR so large it achieves sentience

      # Or be more sensible and group by type
      dev-dependencies:
        dependency-type: "development"

      # Or by package patterns
      aws-stuff:
        patterns:
          - "aws*"
          - "@aws-sdk/*"
```

The beauty of this approach is that Dependabot is smart enough to close all the redundant individual PRs once you merge the combined one. No more playing whack-a-mole with dozens of PRs.

## The CLI Extension Route: gh-combine-prs

If you prefer command-line solutions (or GitHub's grouping doesn't quite scratch your itch), there's a GitHub CLI extension called `gh-combine-prs` that combines multiple PRs into one.

Installation is straightforward:
```fish
gh extension install rnorth/gh-combine-prs
```

Then you can run:
```fish
gh combine-prs --query "author:app/dependabot"
```

One developer even created an alias to make their life easier: `alias ghcombine="gh combine-prs --query \"author:app/dependabot\""`. Because if you're going to repeatedly merge dependency updates, you might as well save yourself some keystrokes.

## The GitHub Action Approach

For those who believe in automation all the way down, there are several GitHub Actions available:

1. **github/combine-prs**: GitHub themselves use this Action to combine multiple dependabot PRs. It's customizable and doesn't have to be Dependabot-specific.

2. **mAAdhaTTah/combine-dependabot-prs**: A more specialized action that includes nice features like checking if PRs are green before combining and respecting ignore labels.

3. **The Hrvey Workflow**: Creates a new PR with a branch that has merged all Dependabot PR branches together, which is particularly elegant because it lets you test all updates together before merging.

## The Auto-Merge Danger Zone

Some brave souls have set up workflows to automatically merge Dependabot PRs that pass CI. While this sounds like the ultimate automation dream, it's a security risk, especially if you have continuous deployment set up, as a malicious package could be published and automatically deployed.

If you insist on living dangerously, at least ensure there's a manual QA step somewhere between the updates and production deployment. Your future self will thank you when the next Log4j vulnerability doesn't automatically propagate through your entire infrastructure.

## The Reality Check

Here's the thing: even with grouped updates, you're still dealing with the fundamental issue that some packages simply have to be updated together. Angular packages, React and React-DOM, AWS SDK components – they're all joined at the hip and updating one without the others is a recipe for a failed build.

The good news is that GitHub's grouped updates can handle this with pattern matching. The bad news is that you still need to know which packages are co-dependent, which is its own special kind of knowledge that you accumulate through painful experience.

## My Recommendation

Start with GitHub's native grouped updates – it's built-in, well-supported, and requires minimal setup. If you need more control or find yourself in edge cases, graduate to the CLI extension or GitHub Actions.

And whatever you do, resist the siren call of full automation. Those 47 PRs might be annoying, but they're less annoying than explaining to your boss why a compromised NPM package just took down production because your bot was feeling particularly helpful that morning.

Happy merging, and may your dependency graph be ever in your favor! 🎲
